[Music]
we interrupt with this breaking news
scientists have figured out why ships
disappear in the Bermuda Triangle but
first we go to Hollywood where Kim
Kardashian has once again done nothing
of importance you know the Bermuda
Triangle is one of the biggest mysteries
in the world and people have been trying
to fathom it for decades get it fathom
it wait there's more this region shaped
in the form of a triangle is situated in
the North Atlantic Ocean between Miami
Puerto Rico and Bermuda the Bermuda
Triangle often called the devil's
triangle is infamous due to numerous
mysterious and inexplicable
disappearances that have happened there
throughout the centuries more than 150
planes cargo ships and smaller vessels
have met their demise in this cursed
area and well a couple of years ago
scientists stated that they'd found the
reason for these bizarre vanishings the
latest discovery may shed a different
light on the internal enigma now before
you get to know the answer to the
mystery of the Bermuda Triangle remember
to subscribe to our channel and turn on
notifications this way you'll always be
the first to learn about all the updates
that appear daily on the bright side of
life so if you thought that baffling
ship disappearances in the Bermuda
Triangle were a thing of the past
think again even with modern technology
and communication systems vessels still
keep vanishing
the most recent accident was also the
most disastrous for the last 30 years
and it happened on October 1st 2015
that day the huge cargo ship SS El Faro
went missing in the area of the Bermuda
Triangle it was a seven hundred ninety
foot vessel carrying numerous containers
vehicles and trailers it departed from
Jacksonville Florida with a crew of 33
people and was heading for Puerto Rico
at the same time a powerful tropical
storm materialized hundreds of miles
away after some time it reached the SSL
Faro and started to circle the ship
after that no word or signal was
received from the crew unexpectedly
the hurricane calmed down as suddenly as
it started the search continued for
weeks and the SS el faro was finally
spotted it was positioned upright and in
one piece at a depth of 15,000 feet in
the Atlantic the search party found no
trace of the crew in the summer of 2003
Frank and Romina Leone a newly married
couple decided to go fishing on their
spick-and-span 16-foot boat
they left Boynton Beach in Florida but
never came back after several days of
constant searching the US Coast Guard
stopped the rescue mission the cargo
Freitas's left the Port of Spain in 1999
and was headed for Saint Vincent in the
Caribbean Sea its cargo weighed 465
tonnes and included bricks concrete
slabs and water tanks at some point a
vessel that was sailing nearby got a
distress call from Genesis the crew
reported they had problems with a bilge
pump after this desperate call for help
communications were lost despite a US
Coast Guard search that covered 33,000
square miles the ship was never seen
again
the 522 foot cargo ship SS poet left
Philadelphia on October 24th 1980 it was
heading for Egypt carrying corn and 34
crew members the ship skipper had spent
41 years of his life at sea and the rest
of the crew were just as experienced a
day after the ship had left on what
turned out to be its last voyage a
bizarre storm with 30 foot high waves
and powerful winds covered the North
Atlantic and while the SS poet was used
to much worse weather conditions it
disappeared without a trace
there was a large-scale search involving
nine aircraft and covering nearly
400,000 square miles it lasted ten days
but failed to spot anything at all
that could betray the location of the
missing ship these are just a few of the
tragedies closely connected with the
devil's triangle for years people had
been theorizing about what forces might
stand behind the catastrophes until
scientists claimed to have unveiled the
mystery the most popular theories have
been as follows methane gas some
researchers believe that ships and
planes crash and disappear in the area
due to methane gas and it has indeed
been proved that there are massive
stores of this gas in some areas of the
ocean floor
therefore when gas is released into the
water the process can sink ships and
make planes crash potentially it could
happen so quickly that a craft in
distress wouldn't have time to send an
SOS wormholes this theory is preferred
by those who love sci-fi in short a
wormhole is a spacetime shortcut while
the existence of wormholes hasn't been
proven yet this doesn't stop some people
from believing that this phenomenon is
what causes vanishings in the Bermuda
Triangle
[Music]
waterspouts now water spouts or
more simply tornadoes at sea are said to
have been spotted in the Bermuda
Triangle
this weather phenomenon sucks water many
feet up into the air
potentially this can make a ship
disappear with eerie ease a hole in the
electromagnetic forces of the planet
compasses are reported to malfunction in
the Bermuda Triangle this place is one
of the few on earth where compasses have
problems pointing north this can lead to
sailors and pilots going off their
course human error
well this theory sounds rather
disappointing for those who love
mysteries however some people are sure
that all the crashes and disappearances
in the Bermuda Triangle happened due to
people's mistakes there are too many
confusing islands that are hard to
distinguish from one another as well as
difficult weather conditions aliens yep
of course no mystery can exist without
an explanation of alien interference
[Music]
it's just too convenient to blame
disappearances on extraterrestrial
forces though why aliens would choose
exactly this area for their abductions
remains unknown now this is all well and
good but none of these theories has been
fortified with evidence on the other
hand the most recent findings of
scientists allow them to claim that the
mystery of the Bermuda Triangle has
finally been solved the culprits are
huge sea monsters but when we say
monsters we don't mean living creatures
they are enormous rogue waves that were
believed to be a myth scientists denied
the existence of rogue waves as a
natural phenomenon until 1995 that was
the year when a gigantic 61 foot high
wave that later got the name but dropped
Norway was spotted via a satellite
rogue waves are terrifying and anomalous
they are massive walls of water that
move across the ocean you will never
wish to encounter a rogue wave when at
sea as it easily wipes out anything it
comes across rogue waves can have a
force of 9 metric tons per square foot
to compare the average 40 foot high wave
has a force of only 0.5 metric tons per
square foot
well rogue waves were considered a
rarity whose existence was doubted they
may be much more common than scientists
had previously believed
Wolfgang Rosenthal is a scientist from
Germany who assisted the European Space
Agency in the research of rogue waves
with the use of a radar satellite he
says that at any given moment about 10
of these terrifying Giants are moving
somewhere in the oceans rogue waves are
completely different from tsunamis
induced by earthquakes the latter are
almost invisible at sea but when they
reach the shore they sweep away
everything that's in their way as for
rogue waves
they almost never come close to land
these giants can reach a whopping 82
feet which is the size of an eight-story
building but that's not the limit
[Music]
according to scientists calculations the
theoretical maximum of a rogue wave
could be 198 feet that's higher than the
Capitol Rotunda in Washington DC but
such a wave is yet to be seen
large rogue waves are usually about 100
feet high one more extremely dangerous
thing about rogue waves is holes in the
sea these are troughs that precede giant
waves for a ship the consequences of
such a plunge will most likely be
catastrophic
after researchers from all over the
world accepted the fact that rogue waves
indeed existed they started to develop
research strategies and discuss their
findings it turned out that one of the
regions where rogue waves were most
likely to appear was the Gulf Stream off
the eastern United States exactly where
it flows through the Bermuda Triangle
rogue waves spring up in the open ocean
as if from nowhere but in fact lots of
small waves gather into a giant one
which then sucks water and energy from
those surrounding it these bizarre waves
can also appear after the collision of
two wave systems moving perpendicular to
each other
the Bermuda Triangle in this case has
all the necessary conditions for the
appearance of rogue waves there are
storms from the north and south
colliding together and researchers have
measured waves as high as 100 feet there
this might also explain why ships don't
send out any distress signals they just
don't have enough time after all
rogue waves pop up out of the blue the
only thing that remains unclear is that
the existence of rogue waves doesn't
explain vanishing planes but let's wait
and see
the research is ongoing so do you
believe that rogue waves caused all the
turmoil in the Bermuda Triangle or are
you a supporter of another theory yeah
like aliens well tell us all about it in
the comments below and if you love
mysteries as much as we do press the
like button see you next time